#summary [Technical details] Video mixer design
#labels Featured,Phase-Design

The video mixing and scaling is completely managed using FFmpeg. In this beta version, only 2D mixing is supported. We’ll consider support for [https://code.google.com/p/libyuv/ libyuv] in the next versions.

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

=Encoders and decoders=
To minimize CPU utilization, all endpoints with the same video codec use the same encoder but different decoders. For example, if you have 7 endpoints using VP8 codec then, the MCU will have 1 encoder and 7 decoders. Using a single encoder gives better CPU performances but more bandwidth than what’s needed because if one endpoint requests an IDR then, the prediction chain is restarted for all other peers.

=Overlays=
The overlays are configured as per section 6.11.6.

The mixed video contains many overlays displayed using [http://www.ffmpeg.org/ffmpeg-filters.html FFmpeg filters]. There are two kinds of overlays: texts and images. The text overlays use [http://www.ffmpeg.org/ffmpeg-filters.html#drawtext-1 drawtext filter] which requires [https://code.google.com/p/telepresence/wiki/Support_BuildingSourceCode#Building_libfreetype libfreetype] to be enabled when building FFmpeg. The image overlays (watermarks) use [http://www.ffmpeg.org/ffmpeg-filters.html#movie-1 movie filter] and accept any PNG or JPEG file as input. JPEG images are natively supported by FFmpeg (thanks to MPEG4) while PNG requires [http://zlib.net/ zlib] to be enabled.

The configuration file could be used to define custom font types for the text overlays. The font types must be [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TrueType TrueType]-compatible. The default fonts come from [ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/freefont ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/freefont].