#summary [Technical details] Recording conference to a file
#labels Featured,Phase-Design

This feature is configured as explained [Configuration_Recording_conference_to_a_file here].

We support almost any container depending on how you built _FFmpeg_ and which codecs are enabled. Right now we recommend only *.avi* and *.mp4* as they are fully tested. *.mkv* and *.webm* will also work but not fully tested yet. The audio and video mixing is done using _libavformat_ from FFmpeg.

 * _*.avi*_ (<b>recommended</b>) requires FFmpeg with *MPEG4* video codec and *AC3* audio codec
 * _*.mp4*_ requires FFmpeg with *H.264* ([https://code.google.com/p/telepresence/wiki/Support_BuildingSourceCode#Building_x264 libx264] thirdparty library) video codec and AAC audio codec. There is a built-in experimental *AAC* codec in FFmpeg but the code is intentionally designed to not accept such codec because of random crashes. For AAC audio codec, you’ll need to build FFmpeg with [https://code.google.com/p/telepresence/wiki/Support_BuildingSourceCode#Building_libfaac libfaac] or any other [http://ffmpeg.org/trac/ffmpeg/wiki/AACEncodingGuide third-party AAC library]. Please note that all AAC libraries are not free. 
 * _*.avi*_ is recommended instead of *.mp4* for the simple reason that the first one consume less CPU.
The output file will have the bridge identifier as name and container type as extension, e.g. _+336000000.avi_. The file is locked and invalid until the last user quit the bridge. 

We highly recommend using [http://www.videolan.org/vlc/index.html VLC] to play the output files.