#summary [Technical details] NAT and firewall traversal
#labels Featured,Phase-Design

This section explains how to tackle NAT and firewall traversal issues.

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

=Symmetric RTP=
This feature is enabled or disabled as explained [Configuration_NAT_Firewall_traversal here].

The Telepresence system fully supports [http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4961 RFC 4961].

An RTP/RTCP stream is symmetric if the same port is used to send and receive packets. This helps for NAT and firewall traversal as the outgoing packets open a pinhole for the ongoing ones. 

The local/outgoing stream (MCU → endpoints) is always symmetric.

If both parties (remote and local) have successfully negotiated ICE candidates then, none will be forced to use symmetric RTP/RTCP.

Let’s imagine your Telepresence instance is on a public network and the SIP client/endpoint on private network:
 # 	Telepresence: Public IP address is *1.1.1.1*
 #	Client: Private IP address is *2.2.2.2* and public IP address is 1.1.1.2
 #.	The SDP from the client to the Telepresence system will contain client’s private IP address (*2.2.2.2*) which is not reachable
 #	The RTP/RTCP packets from the client to the server will be received with source IP address equal to the client’s public IP address (*1.1.1.2*)
 #	If [Configuration_NAT_Firewall_traversal rtp-symetric-enabled] option is used then, the Telepresence system will send RTP/RTCP packets to *1.1.1.2* (learnt from the received packets) instead of *2.2.2.2* which is private and unreachable.

=ICE=
This feature is enabled or disabled as explained [Configuration_NAT_Firewall_traversal here].

The Telepresence system fully supports [http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5245 RFC 5245].

ICE is negotiated only if this feature is enabled and incoming SDP (SIP endpoint → MCU) contains candidates. 

*ICE is mandatory for WebRTC endpoints*.

=RTCP-MUX=
This feature is enabled or disabled as explained [Configuration_NAT_Firewall_traversal here].

The Telepresence system fully supports [http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5761 RFC 5761].

RTCP-MUX is used to minimize the number of ports and help for NAT traversal and administration.